#### Resources

Source: **WHO**

- [Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) advice for the public](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public)
- [Infection prevention and control during health care when novel coronavirus (nCoV) infection is suspected](https://www.who.int/publications-detail/infection-prevention-and-control-during-health-care-when-novel-coronavirus-(ncov)-infection-is-suspected-20200125)
- [Home care for patients with suspected novel coronavirus (nCoV) infection presenting with mild symptoms and management of contacts](https://www.who.int/publications-detail/home-care-for-patients-with-suspected-novel-coronavirus-(ncov)-infection-presenting-with-mild-symptoms-and-management-of-contacts)
- [Q&A on infection prevention and control for health care workers caring for patients with suspected or confirmed 2019-nCoV](https://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/q-a-on-infection-prevention-and-control-for-health-care-workers-caring-for-patients-with-suspected-or-confirmed-2019-ncov)
- [Water, sanitation, hygiene and waste management for COVID-19](https://www.who.int/publications-detail/water-sanitation-hygiene-and-waste-management-for-covid-19)
- [COVID-19 Situation Reports](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/situation-reports/)
- [COVID-19 Media Resources](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/media-resources/news)

Source: **Wikipedia**

- [SARS-CoV-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severe_acute_respiratory_syndrome_coronavirus_2)
- [COVID-19](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coronavirus_disease_2019)

#### Timeline 

- **1 December 2019**: The first known patient started experiencing symptoms on 1 December 2019. He had not been to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market of Wuhan. No epidemiological link could be found between this case and later cases.
- **8–18 December 2019**: Between 8 and 18 December 2019, seven cases later diagnosed with Wuhan coronavirus were documented; two of them were linked with the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, five were not.
- **12 December 2019**: Chinese state broadcaster CCTV reported in a broadcast airing on 12 January 2020 that a "new viral outbreak was first detected in the city of Wuhan, China, on 12 December 2019."
- **21 December 2019**: Chinese epidemiologists with the Chinese Center for Disease Control (CDC) published an article on 1 January 2020 stating that the first cluster of patients with "pneumonia of an unknown cause" had been identified on 21 December 2019.
- **24 December 2019**: First publicly reported collection of virus sample from patient for genetic sequencing.
- **24 December 2019**: Singapore's Ministry of Health (MOH) reported that the first case of what would later be named the 2019-nCoV (Wuhan coronavirus) had been diagnosed. It was later confirmed to not actually be related to the outbreak.
- **25 December 2019**: Report of medical staffs in two hospitals in Wuhan suspected to be infected and were being isolated around 25 December.
- **26 December 2019**: On 26 December 2019, a laboratory identified the coronavirus from the sample collected on 24 December as to be most closely related to a bat SARS-like coronavirus.
- **27 December 2019**: On 27 December 2019, almost complete genetic sequencing of the previous sample have been finished and shared to Institute of Pathogen Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (CAMS&PUMC).
- **29 December 2019**: According to a CDC publication on 31 January 2020, the facts leading up to the identification of the 2019-nCoV were as follows, "On 29 December 2019, a hospital in Wuhan admitted four individuals with pneumonia and recognized that all four had worked in the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, which sells live poultry, aquatic products, and several kinds of wild animals to the public. The hospital reported this occurrence to the local center for disease control (CDC), which led Wuhan CDC staff to initiate a field investigation with a retrospective search for pneumonia patients potentially linked to the market. The investigators found additional patients linked to the market, and on 30 December, health authorities from Hubei Province reported this cluster to China CDC. The following day, China CDC sent experts to Wuhan to support the investigation and control effort. Samples from these patients were obtained for laboratory analyses."
- **30 December 2019**: On 30 December 2019, genetic sequencing report of the pathogen of a patient indicated inaccurately the discovery of Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS coronavirus) in the test result. After receiving the test result, multiple doctors in Wuhan shared the information via internet, including Dr. Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital in Wuhan, China, who posted a warning to alumni from his medical school class via a WeChat online forum that a cluster of seven patients treating within the ophthalmology department had been unsuccessfully treated for symptoms of viral pneumonia and diagnosed with SARS. Because these patients did not respond to traditional treatments, they were quarantined in an ER department of the Wuhan Central Hospital. In the WeChat forum, Li posted that this cluster of patients appeared to be infected by SARS. Dr. Li posted a snippet of an RNA analysis finding "SARS coronavirus" and extensive bacteria colonies in a patient's airways according to a chat transcript that he and other chat members later shared online. Dr. Li contracted this coronavirus from a patient he treated, was hospitalized on 12 January 2020 and died on 6 February 2020. Due to public outcry directed to the CCP outlets retracted original reports, while international news agents corrected reports published on the 6th stating the death on 7th. The official date of death was later announced as 7 February 2020. Dr. Li is widely known for the statement he gave before his death exemplifying how the Chinese government botched the containment of the Wuhan coronavirus, stating "There should be more than one voice in a healthy society."
The Chinese National Health Commission announced later that evening that 8 doctors engaging in this WeChat forum had been arrested by Wuhan Police and charged with "llegal acts of fabricating, spreading rumors and disrupting social order."
Wuhan medical authorities forbade doctors from making public announcements and ordered them to report cases internally.
News of an outbreak of "pneumonia of unknown origin" started circulating on social media on the evening of 30 December 2019. The social media reports stated that 27 patients in Wuhan—most of them stall holders at the Huanan Seafood Market—had been treated for the mystery illness.
On the evening of 30 December 2019, an "urgent notice on the treatment of pneumonia of unknown cause" was issued by the Wuhan Municipal Health Committee on its Weibo social media account. It was reported that since the beginning of December, there had been "a successive series of patients with unexplained pneumonia" 27 suspected cases in total, seven of which were in critical condition and 18 were stable, two of which were on the verge of being discharged soon. The Wuhan Municipal Health Committee reported to the WHO that 27 people had been diagnosed with pneumonia of unknown cause. Most were stallholders from the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, seven of whom were in critical condition. The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission also made a public announcement regarding the situation.
Early investigations into the cause of the pneumonia ruled out seasonal flu, SARS, MERS and bird flu.
Hong Kong Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siu-chee announced after an urgent night-time meeting with officials and experts, "[any suspected cases] including the presentation of fever and acute respiratory illness or pneumonia, and travel history to Wuhan within 14 days before onset of symptoms, we will put the patients in isolation."
- **31 December**: An "urgent notice on the treatment of pneumonia of unknown cause" was issued to the Wuhan Municipal Health Center.
As a result of the official announcement of the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan immediately tightened their inbound screening processes.
Qu Shiqian, a vendor at the Huanan Seafood Market, said government officials had disinfected the premises on 31 December 2019 and told stallholders to wear masks. Qu said he had only learnt of the pneumonia outbreak from media reports. "Previously I thought they had flu," he said. "It should be not serious. We are fish traders. How can we get infected?"
"Chinese state television reported that a team of experts from the National Health Commission had arrived in Wuhan on 31 December 2019 to lead the investigation, while the People's Daily said the exact cause remained unclear and it would be premature to speculate." Chinese state broadcaster CCTV reported that a team of senior health experts had been dispatched to the city of Wuhan and were reported to be "conducting relevant inspection and verification work."
Tao Lina, a public health expert and former official with Shanghai's Centre for disease control and prevention, said, "I think we are [now] quite capable of killing it in the beginning phase, given China's disease control system, emergency handling capacity and clinical medicine support."
- **1 January 2020**: According to the Chinese state-sponsored Xinhua News, the Huanan Seafood Market was closed on 1 January 2020 for "regulation." However, in the Consortium's report of 24 January 2020, it was stated that the Huanan Seafood Market had been closed on 1 January 2020 for "cleaning and disinfection."
- **2 January 2020**: On 2 January, 41 admitted hospital patients in Wuhan, China, were confirmed to have contracted (laboratory-confirmed) the 2019-nCoV (Wuhan coronavirus); 27 (66%) patients had direct exposure to Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. All 41 patients were subsequently relocated from the hospital they had originally been diagnosed in to the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan, China.
- **3 January 2020**: On 3 January 2020, Chinese scientists at the National Institute of Viral Disease Control and Prevention (IVDC) determined the genetic sequence of the novel β-genus coronaviruses (naming it '2019-nCoV') from specimens collected from patients in Wuhan, China, and three distinct strains were established.
Health authorities in Wuhan reported 44 cases, a big jump from the 27 reported on Tuesday. Eleven of the 44 were seriously ill, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said, although there had been no reported deaths to date. The health of the 121 close contacts of the cases was being monitored.
On 3 January 2020, Dr. Li Wenliang, the Wuhan ophthalmologist who had been arrested for spreading false "rumors" on WeChat, was summoned to the Wuhan Public Security Bureau where he was told to sign an official confession and admonition letter promising to cease spreading false "rumors" regarding the coronavirus. In the letter, he was accused of "making false comments" that had "severely disturbed the social order". The letter stated, "We solemnly warn you: If you keep being stubborn, with such impertinence, and continue this illegal activity, you will be brought to justice—is that understood?" Dr. Li signed the confession writing: "Yes, I understand."[21] Li would later be supported e.g. in a blog run by China's Supreme People's Court on 28 January 2020.[40] On 7 February 2020, Chinese state-sponsored news reported that Dr. Li had died from complications arising from his infection to the Wuhan coronavirus only to later delete the post and report Dr. Li as being in critical condition.[41] He was subsequently confirmed the same day as having regrettably indeed deceased.[42] Dr. Li is now being heralded as a whistleblower who exposed the Chinese government's early efforts to cover up the seriousness of the coronavirus pandemic which resulted in its rapid spread across China and the world.[20]
- **4 January**: The head of the University of Hong Kong's Centre for Infection, Ho Pak-leung, warned that the city should implement the strictest possible monitoring system for a mystery new viral pneumonia that infected dozens of people on the mainland, as it was highly possible that the illness was spreading from human to human. The microbiologist also warned that there could be a surge in cases during the upcoming Chinese New Year. Ho said he hoped the mainland would release more details as soon as possible about the patients infected with the disease, such as their medical history, to help experts analyse the illness and to allow for more effective preventive measures to be put in place.[43]
The Singapore Ministry of Health said on Saturday, January 4, that it had been notified of the first suspected case of the "mystery Wuhan virus" in Singapore, involving a three-year-old girl from China who had pneumonia and a travel history to the Chinese city of Wuhan. On January 5, the Singapore Ministry of Health released a press statement stating that the earlier suspected case was not linked to the pneumonia cluster in Wuhan and was also tested negative for the SARS and MERS-CoV.
Chinese officials were criticized for failing to disclose any information about the "mysterious virus" that machine translations of official reports suggested may be caused by a new coronavirus.[39]
The WHO waited for China to release information about the "mysterious new pneumonia virus". The United Nations agency activated its incident-management system at the country, regional and global level and was standing ready to launch a broader response if it was needed. The WHO's regional office in Manila said in Twitter posts Saturday.: "#China has reported to WHO regarding a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, Hubei Province.The Govt has also met with our country office,and updated @WHO on the situation. Govt actions to control the incident have been instituted and investigations into the cause are ongoing."
The Wuhan Institute of Virology didn't respond to an emailed request for comment on the infectious source.
- **5 January 2020**: The number of suspected cases reached 59 with seven in a critical condition. All were quarantined and local medical officials commenced the monitoring of 163 of their contacts. At this time, there had been no reported cases of human-to-human transmission or presentations in healthcare workers.
- **6 January 2020**: On Monday, January 6, the Wuhan health authorities announced they continued seeking the cause but had so far ruled out influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, and coronaviruses SARS and MERS as the respiratory pathogen that had infected 59 people as of 5 January.
- **7 January 2020**: Since the outburst of social media discussion of the mysterious pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, China, Chinese authorities censored the hashtag #WuhanSARS and were now investigating anyone who was allegedly spreading misleading information about the outbreak on social media.
The world continued to wait for China to disclose more information about what had triggered an unexplained pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, China's tenth-largest city.
“The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a travel notice Monday for travelers to Wuhan, Hubei province, China due to the cluster of cases of pneumonia of an unknown etiology…”
- **8 January 2020**: Scientists in China announced the discovery of a new coronavirus.
South Korea announced the first possible case of virus coming from China. South Korea put a 36-year-old Chinese woman under isolated treatment amid concerns that she had brought back a form of viral pneumonia that had sickened dozens in mainland China and Hong Kong in the previous weeks. The unidentified woman, who worked for a South Korean company near capital Seoul, had experienced cough and fever since returning from a five-day trip to China on 30 December, the KCDC said in a press release. The woman had spent time in Wuhan, China, but had not visited the Huanan Seafood Market.
- **9 January 2020**: The WHO confirmed that the novel coronavirus had been isolated from one person who had been hospitalised. On the same day, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control posted its first risk assessment. The WHO also reported that Chinese authorities had acted swiftly, identifying the novel coronavirus within weeks of the onset of the outbreak, with the total number of positively tested people being 41. The first death from the virus occurred in a 61-year-old man who was a regular customer at the market. He had several significant medical conditions, including chronic liver disease, and died from heart failure and pneumonia. The incident was reported in China by the health commission via Chinese state media on 11 January.
Chinese scientists reported on Chinese state broadcaster CCTV that they had found a new "coronavirus in 15 of 57 patients with the illness in the central city of Wuhan, saying it has been preliminarily identified as the pathogen for the outbreak". The scientists announced that the current 'Wuhan Virus', a coronavirus, appears to not be as lethal as SARS. They reported that the new viral outbreak was first detected in the city of Wuhan on 12 December 2019. Additionally, a total of 59 people have been identified as contracting the illness, seven patients had been in a critical condition at some stage, and no healthcare workers were reported as having been infected.
- **10 January 2020**: The gene sequencing data of the isolated 2019-nCoV, a virus from the same family as the SARS coronavirus, was posted on Virological.org by researchers from Fudan University, Shanghai. A further three sequences from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, one from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, and one from Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan were posted to the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) portal. The same day, Public Health England issued its guidance.[59]
On 10 January 2020, Dr. Li Wenliang, Chinese ophthalmologist and coronavirus whistleblower, started having symptoms of a dry cough. On 12 January 2020, Dr. Wenliang started having a fever. He was admitted to the hospital on 14 January 2020. His parents also contracted the coronavirus (presumably from Dr. Wenliang) and were admitted to the hospital with him. Dr. Wenliang tested negative several times for the coronavirus until finally testing positive on 30 January 2020.
First two patients in Shenzhen, Guangdong, China attend University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital.
- **11 January 2020**: The first two patients in Shenzhen city transferred into negative pressure room in Third People's Hospital of Shenzhen City due to matching lab test result, symptoms, and epidemiology and are being listed as suspected cases. The cases was not confirmed at the time, because requirement from the Chinese government at the time was that first case in each individual cities need to be submitted to provincial CDC, verified by national CDC, and then evaluated and confirmed by a specific diagnostic team in national CDC.
- **11–12 January 2020**: In China, more than 700 close contacts of the 41 confirmed cases, including more than 400 healthcare workers, had been monitored, with no new cases reported in China since 5 January. The WHO published initial guidance on travel advice, testing in the laboratory and medical investigation.
- **13 January 2020**: The USCDC announced that the genome had been posted on the NIH genetic sequence database, GenBank. On the same day, Thailand witnessed the first confirmed case of 2019-nCoV, the first outside China. The affected 61-year-old Chinese woman, who is a resident of Wuhan, had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but was noted to have been to other markets. She had arrived in Bangkok on 8 January.
- **14 January 2020**: On 14 January, two of the 41 confirmed cases in Wuhan were reported to include a married couple, raising the possibility of human-to-human transmission.
- **15 January 2020**: A second death occurred in a 69-year-old man in China on 15 January. The WHO published a protocol on diagnostic testing for 2019-nCoV, developed by a virology team from Charité Hospital.
- **16 January 2020**: On 16 January, the WHO was alerted by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare that a 30-year-old male Chinese national had tested positive to 2019-nCoV during a hospital stay between 10 and 15 January. He had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but possibly had close contact with an affected person in Wuhan.
- **17 January 2020**: On 17 January, Thailand's second confirmed case was reported in a 74-year-old woman who arrived in Bangkok on a flight from Wuhan. The number of laboratory-confirmed cases rose to 45 in China.
Yang Xiaobo, head of the Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, died of pneumonia caused by the virus on 17 January.
- **18 January 2020**: After the first 41 laboratory-confirmed cases were identified on January 2, 2020, Chinese officials announced no new cases for the next 16 days, then reported 17 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, three of which were in critical condition. This brought the number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 62. The patients' ages ranged from 30 to 79. 19 were discharged and eight remain critical.
On the same day, the Wuhan City government held an annual banquet in the Baibuting community celebrating the Chinese New Year with forty thousand families in attendance despite the officials' knowledge of the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus. They shared meals, plates and ate together. On 21 January 2020 when Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang was asked on state television why this banquet was held even after the number of cases had risen to 312 he responded, "The reason why the Baibuting community continued to host the banquet this year was based on the previous judgment that the spread of the epidemic was limited between humans, so there was not enough warning."
- **19 January 2020**: On 19 January, the first confirmed cases were reported in China, outside Wuhan, one in the southern province of Guangdong and two in Beijing. Wuhan reported 136 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 201. A new death was also reported in Wuhan, bringing the total number of fatalities in China to three.
- **20 January 2020**: Scientists from the China CDC identified three different strains of the 2019-nCoV confirming that the original Wuhan coronavirus had mutated into two additional strains.
Chinese premier Li Keqiang urged decisive and effective efforts to prevent and control the epidemic. First confirmed case reported in South Korea. Beijing and Guangdong reported an additional three and thirteen laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively. Shanghai confirms its first case, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 218. The investigation team from China's National Health Commission confirmed for the first time that the coronavirus can be transmitted between humans. At least two people had become infected whilst living hundreds of miles from Wuhan.
Five attendees of an as-yet-unnamed private international sales company meeting of 109 attendees, 94 from overseas, held from 20–22 January at the Grand Hyatt Hotel, Singapore were diagnosed with the Wuhan coronavirus upon returning home: one from Malaysia, two from South Korea and two from Singapore. One of the attendees was from Wuhan, China. It was reported that the company held a buffet for their delegates. These four diagnoses were not reported until 5 February 2020. The first laboratory-confirmed case in Singapore of an unrelated 67 year-old native of Wuhan was not reported until 23 January 2020. These cases linked to the meeting were the first evidence that the Wuhan coronavirus had spread through human-to-human contact outside China, which the WHO has said is deeply concerning and could signal evidence of a much larger outbreak. As of 5 February 2020, the sister of a Malaysian who attended the meeting had been infected and four more local staff in Singapore were confirmed as having virus symptoms.

- **21/02/2020**: A total of 291 cases have now been reported across major cities in China, including Beijing and Shanghai. However, most patients are in Wuhan, the central city of 11 million at the heart of the outbreak.
A report by the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London suggested there could be more than 1,700 infections. However, Gabriel Leung, the dean of medicine at the University of Hong Kong, put the figure closer to 1,300.
After 300 confirmed diagnoses and 6 deaths, Chinese state media warned lower-level officials not to cover up the spread of a new coronavirus. Officials declared that anyone who concealed new cases would "be nailed on the pillar of shame for eternity", the political body responsible for law and order said. Local Chinese officials initially withheld information about the epidemic from the public. It later vastly under-reported the number of people that had been infected, downplayed the risks and failed to provide timely information that experts say could have saved lives. In its commentary published online on Tuesday January 20, 2020, the Communist Party's Central Political and Legal Commission talked of China having learned a "painful lesson" from the SARS epidemic and called for the public to be kept informed. Deception, it warned, could "turn a controllable natural disaster into a man-made disaster".
The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission reported at least 15 medical workers in Wuhan have also been infected with the virus, with one in a critical condition.
WHO Situation Report 1: (Please note that the WHO Situation Reports as official reportage stand on their own.)
Confirmed cases were reported in several new locations in China. Zhejiang province and Tianjin reported five and two laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively. Guangdong reported three additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Shanghai and Henan province reported an additional four and one laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively. One laboratory-confirmed case was reported in Sichuan province, and Chongqing reported five laboratory-confirmed cases.Shandong, Hunan, and Yunnan all reported one laboratory-confirmed case each. Jiangxi reported two laboratory-confirmed cases. The total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China increased to 312 and the death toll increased to six.
New cases were also reported outside of mainland China. Taiwan reported its first laboratory-confirmed case, and the United States reported its first laboratory-confirmed case in the state of Washington, the first in North America.
China's Wuhan Institute filed to patent the use of Gilead's remdesivir for the treatment of novel coronavirus.

- **22/01/2020**: [Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by Johns Hopkins CSSE](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6) reported 555 confirmed cases and 17 deaths globally and  provide current stats too. 

- **[...]**

- **[11/03/2020]**: [NY Times - WHO declared SARS-CoV2 outbreak a pandemic][https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/world/coronavirus-news.html)

- Original article and references on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_the_2019%E2%80%9320_coronavirus_outbreak_in_December_2019_%E2%80%93_January_2020)

#### Rumors

Source: [Flutrackers](https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/-2019-ncov-new-coronavirus/china-2019-ncov/821830-china-original-2019-ncov-news-thread-weeks-1-4-december-30-2019-january-25-2020?p=821902#post821902)

2020-01-01 14:58:28 Beijing News reporter: Zhang Sheng Kai Zhang Huilan aspect Editor: Wang Jing Yi

Wuhan South China Seafood Market has been closed, unexplained pneumonia has a mature surveillance system
...
Hong Wei (pseudonym) is the owner of an aquatic shop on Sixth Street in the Western District. He told the Beijing News that he only heard on the morning of December 31 that there were three shop owners who were often playing cards at a stall near Tenth Street two days ago. After that, he sent a WeChat greeting to one of the bosses, and the other party replied "infected with a virus".

Bai Xiaomei (pseudonym), a merchant from the Western District, said that a couple she knew who was doing business in the seafood market was also hospitalized, "for two or three days." According to her, both were pneumonia caused by a cold.

Another merchant on the Second Street in the West District told the Beijing News reporter that the merchant selling spices next door was first admitted to Wuhan Central Hospital on December 25, and then transferred to Wuhan Xiehe Hospital. The store is currently managed by his family.
...
Under the guidance of the owner, a reporter from the Beijing News found the storefronts of four shop owners who were hospitalized for pneumonia for unknown reasons. These stores operate vegetables, edible fungi, seasonings, fish and shrimp, etc., and are currently closed. Among the four stores, the vegetable store and the edible fungus store are adjacent, and the other two belong to different neighborhoods.

Xu Ping (a pseudonym), a neighbor of one of the seasoning shops, told the Beijing News reporter that the owner of the shop was a 40--50-year-old man who usually stayed up late to play cards. He had "don't care" after catching a cold recently. At first He didn't go to the doctor. He went to the hospital only a few days after he noticed that his condition became worse. He was eventually diagnosed with pneumonia.

"I was surprised when I first heard that he was hospitalized. Was he still hospitalized for a bit of a cold?" Xu Ping said, and he was not worried about being infected. "If SARS is not yet infected, it won't be one day or two!" When a reporter from the Beijing News met Xu Ping, she was preparing to close the house and was wearing no mask.
...
On December 31, a reporter from the Beijing News visited the Houhu Courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital, which is about 2 kilometers away from the South China Seafood Market. The official website of the hospital shows that Houhu Courtyard is a high-quality medical resource of Wuhan Central Hospital in the northern part of Hankou. The extension has filled the gap that there are no large tertiary hospitals in the local area.

A 60-year-old patient in the emergency ward, Li Jing (pseudonym), told the Beijing News reporter that she had been treated in the Houhu District of Wuhan Central Hospital on December 27 for gallbladder disease. Since then, she has seen 4 people from the South China Seafood Market. Merchants came to the emergency room due to pneumonia.

According to Li Jing, when the first pneumonia patient from the South China Seafood Market was admitted to the hospital, the hospital did not consider it abnormal and let the patient live with the other patients in the emergency ward. Soon, a middle-aged man accompanied his mother to the hospital. The man ran a poultry shop in the South China Seafood Market. His mother developed some symptoms of pneumonia and had a high fever. The man soon began to have a fever and was hospitalized with his mother.

"When his family came to accompany the bed, he mentioned to the doctor that several people in the South China Seafood Market have recently been hospitalized because of similar symptoms. Some are in Tongji Hospital and some are in Xiehe Hospital." Li Jing said that there were already three people in Houhu Hospital at this time. Patients with pneumonia related to the South China Seafood Market were hospitalized. Doctors began to be vigilant and asked to record the occupational status of the three patients. They learned that the man's mother often went to South China Seafood Market to deliver meals.

On December 29, Li Jing saw that the fourth pneumonia patient from the South China Seafood Market was admitted to the emergency room. The hospital immediately transferred the four patients' beds to the southwest corner of the ward, and they were treated in isolation that afternoon.

"Isolation was very fast, and as soon as they went out, someone came in and disinfected with ultraviolet light." Li Jing said that she believed that the emergency measures against the incident in Houhu Hospital "have been done well." Li Jing said she had no symptoms of respiratory infections.
...
In mid-December, local media in Wuhan reported that Wuhan had entered a period of high flu, and the number of children in many pediatric hospitals surged. A reporter from the Beijing News told a number of medical staff in Houhu District that they had received patients with respiratory diseases this year, but they did not respond.

On the evening of December 31, the son of the owner of a seasoning shop in the western area of ​​the South China Seafood Market told the Beijing News reporter that his father had been treated in Houhu District after being diagnosed with pneumonia. He was originally going to be discharged but was transferred to another hospital for treatment. He didn't know the specific reason.
...
On the afternoon of December 31, a staff member of the Wuhan Institute of Virology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences told the Beijing News reporter that all the researchers participated in the investigation of unexplained pneumonia, but he said that the institute would not release information separately, and related researchers were inconvenient. Interviews are subject to the information of the Health and Health Commission.

Public information shows that China has incorporated unexplained pneumonia into the disease control surveillance system more than ten years ago. The purpose of surveillance is to detect some infectious cases in a timely manner, issue early warning and take preventive measures as soon as possible.

In 2004, in order to screen for possible SARS (SARS) cases, human avian influenza cases, and other infectious respiratory diseases, the original Ministry of Health required nationwide surveillance of unexplained pneumonia cases, and issued the National Implementation Plan for Surveillance of Unexplained Pneumonia Cases. (Trial), and adjusted the plan in 2007 based on previous monitoring experience, and released the National Surveillance, Investigation and Management Plan for Unknown Causes of Pneumonia.

The plan stipulates that cases of unexplained pneumonia refer to the following 4 cases of pneumonia that cannot be diagnosed at the same time: (1) fever (underarm temperature ≥ 38 ℃); (2) imaging characteristics of pneumonia; (3) In the early stage of onset, the total number of white blood cells is reduced or normal, or the lymphocyte classification count is reduced; (4) After standardized antibacterial treatment, there is no significant improvement or progressive worsening of the condition.

The Beijing News reporter retrieved relevant papers and found that since 2004, the relevant departments of disease control and other regions across the country have released monitoring results for pneumonia of unknown origin.

"2004-2009 Cases of Unexplained Pneumonia in China" written by researchers such as Ni Ni and others from the Office of Disease Control and Emergency Management of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention collects cases of unexplained pneumonia from 31 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions in China. Studies show that 2004 From April 2014 to December 31, 2009, a total of 864 cases of unexplained pneumonia reported through the disease surveillance information report management system, telephone and fax, including 35 confirmed cases of human avian influenza, and exclusion of unexplained pneumonia diagnosed as other diseases Of the 793 cases, 36 cases of unexplained pneumonia have not been ruled out so far. Studies have shown that most cases of human bird flu are detected by unexplained pneumonia surveillance.
...
In recent years, unexplained pneumonia cases have occurred throughout the country, and the causes are different.

The Beijing News reporter searched for public reports and found that in 2013, 4 cases of pneumonia of unknown cause were found in Shenzhen, and the final diagnosis was influenza A H1N1 influenza. In the same year, 4 cases of pneumonia of unknown cause appeared in Beijing and were eventually diagnosed as ordinary pneumonia or influenza. In 2013, cases of unexplained severe pneumonia occurred in Shanghai, Anhui, and Jiangsu provinces, of which 3 were confirmed to be infected with H7N9 avian influenza and 2 died.

Evaluation of the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System by Wang Yu, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, shows that since the establishment of an unknown cause pneumonia surveillance system in 2004, as of December 31, 2016, 31 provinces (autonomous regions, municipalities) 1666 cases of pneumonia of unknown cause were reported through the disease monitoring information reporting management system, of which 8% were human cases of avian influenza, and 76% of the reported cases were diagnosed with other diseases, such as viral pneumonia, bacterial pneumonia, unknown pathogen pneumonia, etc. In addition, 15% of cases were diagnosed with upper respiratory infections and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 14% of other unexplained diseases and 2% lack information on disease outcomes.

A paper published by two physicians from the Department of Infectious Diseases and Endemic Disease Control of the Fangshan District Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing published in the "Occupation and Health" in April 2019 shows that in May 2018, an unknown cause of clustering occurred in a primary school in Fangshan District, Beijing. Pneumonia epidemic, more than 20 students in a grade had fever, cough, sore throat, pneumonia and other symptoms. A large number of pneumonia cases were diagnosed on chest radiographs, which attracted great attention from hospital doctors. After consultation and treatment by relevant departments, they were finally diagnosed as a Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection cause.

According to the report of the Wuhan Municipal Health and Health Committee, Wuhan organized consultations with clinical medical, epidemiological, and virological experts from Tongji Hospital, Provincial CDC, Wuhan Institute of Virology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan Infectious Disease Hospital and Wuhan CDC Experts analyzed the above cases from viral pneumonia from the aspects of illness, treatment outcome, epidemiological investigation, and preliminary laboratory tests.

The notice mentioned that viral pneumonia is more common in winter and spring, and can be spread or outbreak. The clinical manifestations are fever, soreness, a small part of breathing difficulties, and pulmonary infiltration. Viruses that cause viral pneumonia are common with influenza viruses. The disease can be prevented and controlled, and indoor air circulation can be prevented to prevent the public places and crowded places where there is no air circulation. People can wear masks when going out. Symptomatic treatment is the main clinical practice, and bed rest is required. If you have the above symptoms, especially the persistent fever, you should go to the medical institution in time.

According to CCTV news, the expert group of the National Health Commission has arrived in Wuhan on the morning of December 31, and is conducting relevant inspection and verification work. According to "People's Daily" reports, a number of people in Wuhan hospitals said that the current cause is not clear, and it cannot be concluded that it is the SARS virus rumored on the Internet. Other severe pneumonia is more likely. And even for the SARS virus, there has been a mature prevention and treatment system before, and citizens do not need to panic.

Beijing News reporter Zhang Shengpo Xiangkai Zhang Huilan

- Edited by Wang Jingying to proofread Li Lijun - [link](http://www.bjnews.com.cn/inside/2020/01/01/668935.html)
- Translation: Google

#### Additional links

- 30/12/2019: [ProMedMail - UNDIAGNOSED PNEUMONIA - CHINA (HUBEI): REQUEST FOR INFORMATION](https://promedmail.org/promed-post/?id=6864153)
- 30/12/2019: [RTHK - Mainland reports suspected Sars outbreak](https://news.rthk.hk/rthk/en/component/k2/1500301-20191231.htm?spTabChangeable=0)
- 30/12/2019: [Reuters - Chinese officials investigate cause of pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-pneumonia/chinese-officials-investigate-cause-of-pneumonia-outbreak-in-wuhan-idUSKBN1YZ0GP)
- 31/12/2019: [Twitter - I don't know who this is, but this person is tweeting that SARS has been confirmed](https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/-2019-ncov-new-coronavirus/china-2019-ncov/821830-china-original-2019-ncov-news-thread-weeks-1-4-december-30-2019-january-25-2020?p=821864#post821864)
- 31/12/2019: [South China Morning Post - Hong Kong takes emergency measures as mystery ‘pneumonia’ infects dozens in China’s Wuhan city](https://www.scmp.com/news/china/politics/article/3044050/mystery-illness-hits-chinas-wuhan-city-nearly-30-hospitalised)
- 31/12/2029: [CGTN - 27 cases of viral pneumonia reported in Central China's Wuhan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FN8NKtXYl2Q)
- 31/12/2019: [Sina - Reporter visits South China seafood market where pneumonia appears](https://finance.sina.com.cn/chanjing/cyxw/2019-12-31/doc-iihnzhfz9452319.shtml )
- 31/12/2019: [Japantimes - Outbreak of SARS-like pneumonia being investigated in China](https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2019/12/31/asia-pacific/science-health-asia-pacific/outbreak-sars-like-pneumonia-investigated-china/#.XmZHikPSLOQ)
- 31/12/2019: [CNBC - Chinese officials investigate cause of pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/12/31/reuters-america-chinese-officials-investigate-cause-of-pneumonia-outbreak-in-wuhan.html)
- 01/01/2020: [BJNews- Wuhan South China Seafood Market Closes Today](https://flutrackers.com/forum/forum/-2019-ncov-new-coronavirus/china-2019-ncov/821830-china-original-2019-ncov-news-thread-weeks-1-4-december-30-2019-january-25-2020?p=821866#post821866)

#### Italy

- [Gazzetta Ufficiale](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/19Pa6qxDOZhMODf6zTdVZR7huKtWvUfru)
